MFLT-7553 Document custom data recordings feature (#331)
memfault/memfault-docs: docs/platform/inspecting-a-device.mdx

![Animation showing the mouse hovering over a linked Device tag in the Device details page](/img/docs/platform/linked-devices-hover.gif)

## Custom Data Recordings

> Many projects have custom data formats which can be useful to analyze when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some projects, devices already capture additional data in custom formats which can be useful to analyze when
```

> which can be useful to analyze when debugging issues, for example trace data,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
which can be useful to analyze when debugging issues, for example, trace data,
```

allows this arbitrary information to be bundled as a "Custom Data Recording"
(CDR).

CDRs allow you to collect custom data for specific events happening on your

> device. Data sent via the CDR API can be of any format, which are then

Reviewer: ```suggestion
device. Data sent via the CDR API can be of any format, which is then
```

> visualized and downloadable from the Device Timeline. To enable this, CDRs are
> bundled with extra metadata:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
visualized and downloadable from the Device Timeline. To enable this, each CDR is
bundled with metadata when uploaded:
```

- **Reason** - This describes what was the cause/reason for sending the CDR.
  Limited to 100 different unique values.

> - **MIME type** - One or more MIME types describing the contents of the CDR.

Reviewer: Does it make sense to to link to MDN here?

- **Duration** - The time in which the CDR was captured over.
- **Start Time** [Optional] - When the capture began. Defaults to the API
  servers current time in UTC.

> 

Reviewer: Here: I would provide an example. Goals:
* Teach about reason and how we want id to be used.
* Teach how to use several MIME types with most-specific one first
* Teach about vendor-specific MIME types
* Show an example that makes them re-think if their use-case really doesn't have a duration.

Reviewer 3: @SionAbes is it OK with you if I would take a stab at writing these examples that @HBehrens is asking for?
I can carve out some time tomorrow to do that.

For each unique reason given to a CDR, a swimlane is created on the timeline.
Clicking or hovering over a timeline entry will give you the option to download

> the file for future analysis.

Reviewer: I think it makes sense to call out that CDRs are subject to rate limiting and link to the respective section on that page

> the file for future analysis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the data for further analysis.
```
Let's avoid the term "file" in the context of CDR

> ![Screenshot showing basic custom data recording use case](/img/docs/platform/custom-data-recording.png)

Reviewer: The relevant piece of UI is very small on this screenshot. Can you re-align it to make better use of the screen estate?

Reviewer: Also: It's not immediately clear to me what one would download in the event of a device shutdown 🤔

Reviewer 3: I updated the screenshot from what's on master and with @SionAbes 's new demo data.

![Animation showing the mouse hovering over a linked Device tag in the Device details page](/img/docs/platform/linked-devices-hover.gif)

## Custom Data Recordings

> 

Reviewer 3: Here's a piece of docstring that Chris wrote that you could also use for inspiration:
https://github.com/memfault/memfault/pull/7904/files#diff-4a0784c80612758f8262a2afb06f8f6a5f25a33e58f77d418ca06721b290bae9R6-R10

In the context of device debugging, Memfault collects data in the following
forms:

- **Metrics** - which are collected once per hour at a low sampling rate but
  high cardinality numerical data points which are indexed and aggregated.
- **Error Reports** - such as coredumps, tombstones, dropbox entries, which are
  collected as needed and contain debug information for a single error event in
  a rigid format.
- **Logs** - collected regularly for few devices. They contain high-density

>   custom data but the device needs to produce lines of text ahead of time.

Reviewer 3: When I read this, I was wondering "why do we need to tell this here?"
I don't think it's necessary to provide such detailed overview here.

To set the stage for the next paragraph, I do think it makes sense to say that Memfault collects various types of data out of the box (and give a few examples) and as a segue to saying the platform also supports collecting arbitrary data.

Custom Data Recordings are the forth pillar to this suite of tools, allowing you

> to collect high-density telematic insights to specific events happening on your
> device. Data sent via Custom Data Recordings are of user defined file types and

Reviewer 3: - high-density telematic insights => this is an example, but CDR is not limited to that
- file => I would avoid the word "file" and instead use "data". File suggests things like one needs to have a file (MCU systems may not have a filesystem at all, but the API can still be used).

```suggestion
to collect custom data to specific events happening on your
device. Data sent via the Custom Data Recordings API can be of any format.
```

> are parsed, visualised, and downloadable from the Device Timeline.

Reviewer 3: I'd leave out "parsed" until mimetypes is explained later on.

```suggestion
The Custom Data Recordings visualized on and downloadable from the Device Timeline.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: I think we need explanation about the "metadata" of a CDR:
- reason
- mimetypes
- duration
- start_time

For each unique reason given to a Custom Data Recording, a swimlane is created
on the timeline. Data sent can be configured as either a span of time or a
point, which are represented with a bar or dot respectively. Clicking or
hovering over a timeline entry will give you the option to download the file for
future analysis.

> ![Screenshot showing basic custom data recording use case](/img/docs/platform/custom-data-recording.png)

Reviewer 3: Feedback on the screenshot:

- I would select the 3rd or 4rd, not the 1st. I think if there a a few blue pills shown before and after the popover, I think it's a bit easier to parse what's going on, visually.
- Maybe ensure that there's a bit of whitespace at the bottom? It's cropped a bit oddly now.

![Animation showing the mouse hovering over a linked Device tag in the Device details page](/img/docs/platform/linked-devices-hover.gif)

## Custom Data Recordings

Many embedded projects have custom data formats which can be useful to analyze

> when debugging issue (i.e trace data, proprietary coredumps, logs). Memfault

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
when debugging issues, for example trace data, proprietary coredumps, logs. Memfault
```

I remember being asked to remove "i.e.", "e.g." and so on, keeping the tradition going ;)

allows this arbitrary information to be bundled as a "Custom Data Recording"
(CDR).

> CDRs allow you to collect custom data to specific events happening on your

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
CDRs allow you to collect custom data for specific events happening on your
```

Author: [Welshisms](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Colloquial_Welsh_prepositions)..

device. Data sent via the CDR API can be of any format, which are then
visualized and downloadable from the Device Timeline. To enable this, CDRs are
bundled with extra metadata:

> 

Reviewer 4: General question for the metadata list below: do we in this document need to mention "validation details" like `limited to 100 unique values` or the units? Feels like here we should be talking more about the concepts rather than technical details.

Reviewer 3: Hmm, I think I would prefer to have limits also be described here. 

I can also see the "Rate Limiting" page grew into a more generic "Limits" page. [Heroku](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/limits) and [AWS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-service-information.html) take this approach.

But as a consumer of the docs, I personally would prefer having limits be described "in context".

@HBehrens or @tyhoff WDYT?

Reviewer: Ideally, this limitation will be expressed at the API level (e.g. in C the SDK expresses this as a char array with fixed size). Instead of calling out explicit max-sizes here, I'd rather provide an example to the expected use. This will more softly familiarize them with the idea that reason is meant to be short and generic rather than long and with per-incident details.

- **Reason** - This describes what was the cause/reason for sending the CDR.
  Limited to 100 different unique values.

> - **Mimetypes** - A list of MIME types, in descending order of specificity.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **MIME type** - One or more MIME types describing the contents of the CDR.
```

Reviewer 3: The order piece is important too though, I would keep that part in. Maybe as a separate sentence to make it easier to read.

>   Decides how the CDR is visualized in the timeline.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Since we have 0 visualizers so far, no need to raise expectations :D

Reviewer 3: I think it's OK to say the intention is to add visualizers in the future and that the mime types will be used to select the most-apt visualizer for the data.

> - **Duration** - The time in seconds in which the CDR was captured over.

Reviewer 3: I would not mention "seconds" here, because this depends a bit on the API.
When one is using the HTTP API or memfault CLI, it's indeed seconds (floating point), but when using the [MCU API, it will be milliseconds (integer)](https://github.com/memfault/memfault/pull/7904/files#diff-4a0784c80612758f8262a2afb06f8f6a5f25a33e58f77d418ca06721b290bae9R65).

- **Start Time** - When the capture began. Defaults to the API servers current

>   time in UTC.

Reviewer 3: Need to mention it is optional. When not provided, the time of ingestion in the Memfault cloud will be used as fall-back.

For each unique reason given to a CDR, a swimlane is created on the timeline.

> Data sent can be configured as either a span of time or a point, which are
> represented with a bar or dot respectively. Clicking or hovering over a timeline

Reviewer 4: Dots may be going away, perhaps best not to mention UI details so specifically. Shouldn't be too hard to grok this particular part of the UI!

```suggestion
Clicking or hovering over a timeline
```

![Animation showing the mouse hovering over a linked Device tag in the Device details page](/img/docs/platform/linked-devices-hover.gif)

## Custom Data Recordings

In some projects, devices already capture additional data in custom formats
which can be useful to analyze when debugging issues, for example, trace data,
proprietary coredumps, logs. Memfault allows this arbitrary information to be
bundled as a "Custom Data Recording" (CDR).

CDRs allow you to collect custom data for specific events happening on your
device. Data sent via the CDR API can be of any format, which is then visualized
and downloadable from the Device Timeline. To enable this, each CDR is bundled
with metadata when uploaded:

- **Reason** - This describes what was the cause/reason for sending the CDR.
  Limited to 100 different unique values.
- **MIME type** - One or more MIME types describing the contents of the CDR.
- **Duration** - The time in which the CDR was captured over.
- **Start Time** [Optional] - When the capture began. Defaults to the API
  server's current time in UTC.

An example use case of CDRs could be that your device collects high density data

> within propitiatory file, that you'd like to extract during high load

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
within proprietary file, that you'd like to extract during high load
```

activities, or you'd like to capture heatmaps or screenshots of a device when
errors occur to better understand what a user was seeing or doing just before a
crash. Memfault uses the MIME type array provided to best infer the

> visualization technique, where vendor specific MIME types might not be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
visualization on the Device Timeline, where vendor specific MIME types might not be
```

In some projects, devices already capture additional data in custom formats
which can be useful to analyze when debugging issues, for example, trace data,
proprietary coredumps, logs. Memfault allows this arbitrary information to be
bundled as a "Custom Data Recording" (CDR).

CDRs allow you to collect custom data for specific events happening on your
device. Data sent via the CDR API can be of any format, which is then visualized
and downloadable from the Device Timeline. To enable this, each CDR is bundled
with metadata when uploaded:

- [**Reason**](#cdr-reason) - This describes what was the cause/reason for
  sending the CDR. Limited to 100 different unique values.
- [**MIME types**](#cdr-mime-types) - One or more MIME types describing the
  contents of the CDR.
- **Duration** - The time in which the CDR was captured over.
- **Start Time** [Optional] - When the capture began. Defaults to the API
  server's current time in UTC.

Some example use cases of CDRs are:

- collecting debug data using a proprietary format,
- capturing UI heatmaps,
- recording screenshots of a device when errors occur to better understand what
  a user was seeing or doing just before a crash,

> - adding test reports for devices in a hardware-in-the-loop test set up.

Author: Nit: I would capitalise these, and remove the comma at the end!

- ...

For each unique reason given to a CDR, a swimlane is created on the timeline.
Clicking or hovering over a timeline entry will give you the metadata of the CDR
as well as the option to download the data for further analysis.

![Screenshot showing basic custom data recording use case](/img/docs/platform/custom-data-recording.png)

> <h3 id="cdr-reason">CDR Reason</h3>

Reviewer: nit (here and throughout the doc): Docusaurus understand IDs in markdown https://docusaurus.io/docs/next/markdown-features/toc#heading-ids

In principle, the reason fields is a free-form string field. A project can only
have 100 different CDR reasons. Our recommendation is to treat the reason as an

> "enum" and use only a small set of static values. In the Device Timeline, all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"enum" and to use and re-use only a small set of static values. In the Device Timeline, all
```

CDRs with the same reason are shown in the same swimlane.

Some examples: for a connected device with a display, we might want to capture
the modem logs when it disconnects. We could be using `Modem Disconnect` for the
reason field. Aside of that, we may also want to capture a screenshot image
after a crash happened (and the user gave consent to upload a screenshot). Here,
we'll use the reason `User Feedback Post Crash` as the reason.

In the future, Memfault will also extend the Device Search to enable searching

> for devices having CDRs with a given (set of) reasons.

Reviewer: While we generally try to avoid talking about future functionality, I'd say we leave it here as it may help customers to understand how to best choose the reason string.

<h3 id="cdr-mime-types">CDR MIME types</h3>

Memfault uses the MIME types array provided to infer the best visualization to
use in the Timeline. The MIME types in the array are expected to be ordered by
specificity (most specific first). The visualization for the most-specific but
supported MIME type will be used by the Timeline.

:::note

> We recommend using one of the types in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using proprietary MIME types, we recommend using one of the types in the
```

[table below](#cdr-supported-visualizations) as the last entry (fallback) in the
MIME types list.

:::

For example, for the modem logs CDR from the connected device we talked about in
the previous section, we may be using a MIME types list of:
`application/vnd.acme-inc.modem-trace.v2`, `application/vnd.tcpdump.pcap`,
`application/octet-stream`.

The first and most-specific MIME type is
`application/vnd.acme-inc.modem-trace.v2`. This is a self-coined (not
[IANA-registered][iana-mime-types]), vendor-specific MIME type, as indicated by
the `vnd.` prefix.

The modem logs happen to be recorded in a format that is a superset of the pcap
format. Therefore, we use `application/vnd.tcpdump.pcap` as the second MIME type
in the list. This is the [official IANA-registered][iana-mime-types] type for a
pcap file (Wireshark dump).

Lastly, `application/octet-stream` is used in the MIME types list. This type is
essentially means "application specific binary data".

Even though Memfault does not have a Timeline visualizer for pcap data, let
alone the vendor-specific format extensions to pcap, it might be added some day

> in the future. For this reason, we recommended using an accurate list of MIME

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the future. It also helps identifying the format of the payload when downloading it from the device timeline. For this reason, we recommended using an accurate list of MIME
```

types.

<h3 id="cdr-supported-visualizations">Supported CDR visualizations</h3>

| MIME type                      | Description | Visualization                                                                     |
| ------------------------------ | ----------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `text/*`                       | Text        | Coming soon: a preview of the text contents in the popover of the CDR.            |
| `text/markdown`                | Markdown    | Coming soon: a preview of the Markdown contents in the popover of the CDR.        |
| `application/json`, `*/*+json` | JSON data   | Coming soon: a preview of the JSON contents in the popover of the CDR.            |

> | `application/octet-stream`     | Binary data | Coming soon: a preview of the contents in a hex viewer in the popover of the CDR. |

Reviewer: Again, we usually try to avoid announcing future features in our docs but we keep it here to inform how to use our mandatory field MIME type.
